this university
and someone with a fancy phd did this
study that was really interesting they
studied
1500 meat eaters who were like presented
with an ethical argument like an
argument around the killing of animals
not one about health or the environment
like this was intended to make them feel
guilty
about their food choices they were then
presented with like a handful of things
to eat right and a majority of the
people decided to not
avoid eating animals after hearing these
ethical arguments but rather
eating what was considered like a
healthier form of flesh like
skinless chicken as opposed to like
fried chicken but the study found that
that quote
psychologically when people felt guilty
about their behavior
they tend to justify the behavior rather
than changing it this phenomenon is more
pronounced
when the behavior is deeply ingrained in
their lives so
what are the takeaways from the study
when guilt was being placed on consumers
it actually drove them to eat
more meat the emotional backlash the
consumers felt
that it ended up strengthening their
justification and doing so
guilt is effective it's the only thing
that gets people to go vegan
people say don't guilt-trip them how
else are we going to get them to go
vegan
how else are you going to get people to
take animal abuse seriously
if they don't feel guilty for what
they're doing you are
according to these studies you're
actually driving people to continue to
eat meat
and actually even eat more of it in
marketing
and even more importantly in politics we
have to move past
vague abstract ideas like
the people who is this message for
people all the people the largest number
of people possible who are you trying to
reach
with this message who is this for
what kind of feeling what kind of
interest
are you really trying to elicit from
people
there was a study done in france
the netherlands northern europe
what do people want in a painting and
aren't gallery
people most of these people
have never been to an art gallery but
maybe not in their lives maybe they went
as school children
when they were forced to go maybe they
were when their parents held their hand
just like going to the zoo and that as
little interest in art and painting as
they had in seeing a zebra
at the zoo maybe less right the vast
majority of people if you
if you pull the people what do you want
to see
at an art gallery what do you want to
see in a painting guess what the study
found the
vast majority of europeans
said that they wanted to see a blue
landscape
a landscape with trees and animals and a
blue sky that's what they want to see
out of modern art no it's not
the way to get ahead in painting the way
to be a successful artist is not
even to make a painting that a special
focused study shows the tiny minority of
people who are passionately interested
in modern art
want to see if you poll if you study if
you survey
the type of person who goes to an art
gallery
more often than once a month let's just
start
what percentage of humanity
goes to an art gallery more often than
once a month more often than 12 times a
year
they go to an art gallery or an art
museum this is a tiny minority of people
even if you go and interview them
research them ask them some survey
questions say what do you want out of a
new painting
you're not going to get the right answer
because the way to succeed in
art is to present those people
with something they've never seen before
with something they weren't expecting to
see with something
challenging with something new with
something different
with some that makes them say wow when i
came to the art gallery today
that's not what i was expecting to see
isn't it easy to think of the purpose
of marketing as being to deliver a
message
to the people to anyone and everyone
when in fact
the challenge of marketing is to reach
the right people and to make them
interested
for the right reasons isn't it
easy to think that politics is about
delivering a message
to the people to anyone and everyone
when politics is all about getting the
right message
to the right people selling a painting
for ten thousand dollars is nothing like
selling a postcard for one dollar
and fifty cents if you want to sell
a postcard to the massive humanity maybe
a blue landscape
is going to be successful it was an
interesting case study
in england where the military
was struggling with recruitment
what we're doing in the vegan movement
in many ways
is much more in common with military
recruitment
than it has in common with selling
postcards or selling paintings or market
research
for what's going to be appealing to
people what's going to make people happy
if you ask people if you do market
research
you present them with several different
ads saying join the army
just ask people just ask the general
public which one of these ads
caught your attention which one of these
ads was appealing to you which one of
these ads made you feel interested
in joining the army this is just as
misleading as asking the mass of
humanity in general
what is it they're looking for in a
painting when they go to an art gallery
if they go to an art gallery they're
never going to go to an art gallery
all right and with joining the army if
you ask people who never have joined the
army and never will
join the army what makes them interested
in joining the army
you get the same kind of market research
results
that you get for how to advertise a
chocolate bar or a bottle of beer
bottle of whiskey new clothing people
like
advertisements that are funny and
sexy and optimistic and uplifting
both men and women like
sexy half-naked women in advertising
there's a ton of market rates to show
that's what works
that's what gets their attention that's
what gets them interested okay and you
could go ahead and have it you could
have
ads for the army that has a woman in a
bikini
saying hey see the world you know
go off to a beach in some far-off exotic
country and kill
for the government of the united kingdom
all right it'll get people's attention
and will get positive results in market
research but
that is not the purpose of marketing
okay and it's not the purpose of
recruitment in the military
and it's not the way we do politics in
the 21st century
you want to get the right people
interested for the right reasons
and the message you're delivering in
army recruitment isn't
optimistic and upbeat and funny and sexy
and uplifting
our sources tell us that this is a bomb
factory we need to stormy
now what would you do call an air
support
kick the door in i'll blow the wall
[Music]
what the british military found was that
all this market research they did all
this social science research they did
was fundamentally wrong and bad and
counterproductive because the message
they had to get across was
this is a hard job and it's not for
everybody
it's intense it's exhausting it's
morally challenging
but maybe it's the right job for you
maybe if you're
bored in the career you have now
maybe you'll be interested in picking up
a rifle
and doing this training and dealing with
these intense
exhausting high pressure situations does
this sound interesting to you does this
challenge centers are you up for the
challenge when they switch to this
much different form of marketing this
much different form
of pitch and recruitment they didn't get
more interest they didn't get more mouse
clicks
they didn't get more people phoning up
the 1-800 number for military equipment
casually interested what they got was
a much higher percentage of the people
who phoned them
who clicked a much higher percentage of
the people who walked into
recruitment offices a much higher
percentage were
actually interested were actually
prepared
and actually had the requirements
necessary
to have a successful military career
they were increasingly
recruiting the right people and they
were getting people coming in to join
who were interested for the right
reasons
not because they had some kind of
misleading
uplifting entertaining sexy
advertisement appeal to them this is
partly
about marketing it's partly about
politics but it's partly something
profoundly philosophical my approach to
this
is nihilistic part of my perspective is
i don't believe in these abstractions
you guys use like
people because we're not really talking
about
people and marketing is not about making
a message that appeals to
the people you can buy a joystick
for 15
your child will be happy buying this
joystick
to whom are you marketing when you're
trying to sell a low commitment
spontaneous impulse purchase like a 15
joystick to whom are you trying to
appeal when you make a postcard
that costs one dollar and 50 cents that
people are gonna buy
think nothing of use in a day forget
they ever made the purchase
who are you appealing to when you want
to sell a painting
for 100 000 that someone is going to
have
hanging on the wall of their mansion and
they're gonna have to look at it
for the rest of their lives when they're
making a commitment
that changes their life forever they're
buying a painting for a hundred thousand
dollars
doesn't matter maybe they're a
multi-millionaire and it's not that much
money to them
guess what matters to them every time a
guest comes over to their condo to their
home
they see that painting and asked about
it they go wow oh
you own a kandinsky wow why did you
decide to own a kansas city people judge
you
people think of you as a guy who owns a
multi-million dollar painting or a
hundred thousand dollars you buy a piece
of modern art from an artist who isn't
famous and well known yet
for a hundred thousand dollars people
think something about you and you
think something about yourself and you
feel a certain way and you see
that painting unlike a television you
never turn it off
right in a sense buying a painting
is a major commitment that changes your
life forever
that's a lot more like adopting a vegan
diet a vegan identity
committing ethically morally politically
to being part
of the vegan movement that future it's
not like buying a postcard
and this same difference is evident if
we're even talking about the difference
between marketing a fifteen dollar
joystick
and a joystick that costs one hundred
and fifty dollars
minimum how are you gonna market a one
hundred and fifty dollar joystick
in a world where fifteen dollar
joysticks are ubiquitous and available
to everyone
you don't do market research saying oh
which of these ads gets people attention
oh well the
the sexy ad the funny ad the optimistic
you can just have an ad with a woman in
a bikini
holding the joystick say hey sign up now
that's not going to be effective
marketing because the whole
purpose of marketing is to reach
the right people and to get them
interested in your product
for the right reasons again this isn't
me saying this like this is study after
study after study
this youtube channel is changing in the
past
the vast majority of my videos were on a
single topic like this one where you
could see by the title and you could see
by the thumbnail
exactly what it was i was speaking about
and the significant percentage of my
audience
who were interested in coming here and
hearing me speak about vegan politics
the future of the movement etc etc they
would just click on those videos
guess what i'm shifting over to a long
format live stream based channel where i
sit and talk about politics
for two hours at a stretch i'm gonna
talk about what's happening in china
what's happening in syria
what's happening in civil wars and
revolutions all over the world
chile is writing a new constitution
right now that'll definitely be
discussed next video
well if you click on these new longer
videos there's going to be
a table of contents there's going to be
a series of timestamps
and if i'm talking about vegan politics
somewhere there you can click
and just jump to the particular moment
there's going to be a big shift
from this format of single topic videos
to much longer videos
more easily listened to while washing
the dishes that cover a variety of
topics where veganism may be
buried in the middle somewhere i just
read a book
that specifically dealt with mental
disability in the us armed forces
to be blunt mentally [ __ ]
people serving in the army especially
during the vietnam war there are
shocking statistics
about how often men were excluded from
the army or kicked out of the army or
caused a problem in the army during the
vietnam war
because they would not shave
and they would not brush their teeth
you might assume that these were
conscientious objectors that these were
people who were morally opposed to the
war or who were drafted
who were refusing to shave or brush
their teeth as a form of protest or
something
and the military requirement no
the problem was that they were
recruiting men who were so mentally
disabled
who were at such a low level of iq on
the iq test
problematic concept that they couldn't
brush their own teeth
they couldn't shave they were men who
were used to being
taken care of to that extent they had
men in the military
who couldn't tie their own shoelaces and
the whole military became
corrupted with the process of faking
their test scores and
ushering them through boot camp and
getting them out to the war zone
getting them to actually fight on the
front lines and yes
very often they didn't just get
themselves killed
they killed others they killed men on
their own side
not everybody can do military
service not everyone has
what it takes we have to think
seriously about what the requirements
are to be a vegan activist what it takes
to be a part of this movement what it
takes to live
this lifestyle ethically
intellectually and in terms
of sanity and self-discipline
i'm saying it to you straight to your
face
some people are too stupid to be vegan
some people are too crazy to be vegan
some people are too lazy and lack
the self-discipline to be vegan and if
you do this kind of
market research about what people want
and what people respond to
in advertising in outreach in political
recruitment
for this movement you are never going to
touch
that one talented person out of 10 000
that one person out of a million that
you're really trying to reach
where if you're honest with them you're
going to recruit them
you're going to motivate them to be
involved
for the right reasons
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice